---
title: x12
---

# `x12`

{== Access to X13-ARIMA-SEATS seasonal adjustment program. ==}


## Syntax with a Single Type of Output Requested

    [Y, OutpFile, ErrFile, Model, X] = x12(X, ...)
    [Y, OutpFile, ErrFile, Model, X] = x12(X, Range, ...)

## Syntax with Mutliple Types of Output Requested

[Y1, Y2, ..., OutpFile, ErrFile, Model, X] = x12(X, Range, ...)
>
> See the option `'output='` for the types of output data available from
> X12.
> 

## Input arguments 

__`X`__ [ tseries ] 
> 
> Input data that will seasonally adjusted or filtered
> by the Census X12 Arima; `X` must be a quarterly or monthly time series.
> 

__`Range`__ [ numeric | char | `@all` ] 
> 
> Date range on which the X12 will
> be run; `@all` means the entire on which the input time series is
> defined; `Range` may be omitted.
> 

## Output arguments 

__`Y`__, __`Y1`__, __`Y2`__, ... [ tseries ] 
> 
> Requested output data, by default
> only one type of output is returned, the seasonlly adjusted data; see the
> option `'output='`.
> 

__`OutpFile`__ [ cellstr ]
> 
> Contents of the output log files produced by
> X12; each cell contains the log file for one type of output requested.
> 

__`ErrFile`__ [ cellstr ]
> 
> Contents of the error files produced by X12;
> each cell contains the error file for one type of output requested.
> 

__`Model`__ [ struct ]
> 
> Struct array with model specifications and parameter
> estimates for each of the ARIMA models fitted; `Model` matches the size
> of `X` is 2nd and higher dimensions.
> 

__`X`__ [ tseries ] 
> 
> Original input data with forecasts and/or backcasts
> appended if the options `'forecast='` and/or `'backcast='` are used.
> 

## Options 

__`Backcast=0`__ [ numeric ]
> 
> Run a backcast based on the fitted ARIMA
> model for this number of periods back to improve on the seasonal
> adjustment; see help on the `x11` specs in the X13-ARIMA-SEATS manual.
> The backcast is included in the eutput argument `X`.
> 

__`CleanUp=true`__ [ `true` | `false` ] 
> 
> Delete temporary X12 files when
> done; the temporary files are named `iris_x12a.*`.
> 

__`Log=false`__ [ `true` | `false` ]
> 
> Logarithmize the input data before, 
> and de-logarithmize the output data back after, running `x12`.
> 

__`Forecast=0`__ [ numeric ]
> 
> Run a forecast based on the fitted ARIMA
> model for this number of periods ahead to improve on the seasonal
> adjustment; see help on the `x11` specs in the X13-ARIMA-SEATS manual.
> The forecast is included in the output argument `X`.
> 

__`Display=false`__ [ `true` | `false` ]
> 
> Display X12 output messages in
> command window; if false the messages will be saved in a TXT file.
> 

__`Dummy=[ ]`__ [ tseries | empty ]
> 
> User dummy variable or variables (in
> case of a multivariate tseries object) used in X13-ARIMA-SEATS
> regression; the dummy variables must also include values for forecasts
> and backcasts if you request them; the type of the dummy can be specified
> in the option `DummyType=`.
> 

__`DummyType='Holiday'`__ [ `'AO'` | `'Holiday'` | `'TD'` ]
> 
> Type of the
> user dummy (which is specified through the option `'Dummy='`); the three
> basic types of dummies are additive outlier (`'AO'`), holiday flows
> (`'Holiday'`), and trading days (`'TD'`); see the X13-ARIMA-SEATS or
> X13-ARIMA documentation for more details (available from the U.S.Census
> Bureau website), look for the section on the REGRESSION spec, options
> 'user' and 'usertype'.
> 

__`'Mode='`__ [ *`'auto'`* | `'add'` | `'logadd'` | `'mult'` |
`'pseudoadd'` | `'sign'` ]
> 
> Seasonal adjustment mode (see help on the
> `x11` specs in the X13-ARIMA-SEATS manual); `'auto'` means that series
> with only positive or only negative numbers will be adjusted in the
> `'mult'` (multiplicative) mode, while series with combined positive and
> negative numbers in the `'add'` (additive) mode.
> 

__`'MaxIter='`__ [ numeric | *`1500`* ]
> 
> Maximum number of iterations for
> the X12 estimation procedure. See help on the `estimation` specs in the
> X13-ARIMA-SEATS manual.
> 

__`'MaxOrder='`__ [ numeric | *`[2, 1]`* ]
> 
> A 1-by-2 vector with maximum
> order for the regular ARMA model (can be `1`, `2`, `3`, or `4`) and
> maximum order for the seasonal ARMA model (can be `1` or `2`). See help
> on the `automdl` specs in the X13-ARIMA-SEATS manual.
> 

__`AllowMissing=false`__ [ `true` | `false` ]
> 
> Allow for in-sample missing
> observations, and fill in values predicted by an estimated ARIMA process;
> if `false`, the seasonal adjustment will not run and a warning will be
> thrown.
> 

__`Output='SA'`__ [ char | cellstr ]
>
>List of requested output data; the
>cellstr or comma-separated list can combine any number of the request
>specifications listed below in subsection Output request; See also help
>on the `x11` specs in the X13-ARIMA-SEATS manual.
>

__`SaveAs=''`__ [ char | empty ]
>
> Name (or a whole path) under which
> X13-ARIMA-SEATS output files will be saved.
>

__`SpecFile='default'`__ [ char ] 
> 
> Name of the X13-ARIMA-SEATS spec file;
> if `'default'` the IRIS default spec file will be used, see description.
> 

__`TDays=false`__ [ `true` | `false` ]
> 
> Correct for the number of trading
> days. See help on the `x11regression` specs in the X13-ARIMA-SEATS
> manual.
> 

__`TempDir='.'`__ [ char | function_handle ] 
> 
> Directory in which
> X13-ARIMA-SEATS temporary files will be created; if the directory does
> not exist, it will be created at the beginning and deleted at the end of
> the execution (unless `CleanUp=false`).
> 

__`Tolerance=1e-5`__ [ numeric ]
> 
> Convergence tolerance for the X13
> estimation procedure. See help on the `estimation` specs in the
> X13-ARIMA-SEATS manual.
> 

## Description 



## Output Requests

The option `Output=` can combine any number of the following requests:

* `'SA'` - seasonally adjusted series;
* `'SF'` - seasonal factors;
* `'TC'` - trend-cycle component;
* `'IR'` - irregular component;
* `'MV'` - the original input series with missing values fitted by
running an estimated ARIMA model.

## Missing Observations

If you keep `AllowMissing=false` (this is the default for backward
compatibility), `x12` will not run on series with in-sample missing
observations, and a warning will be thrown.

If you set `AllowMissing=true`, you allow for in-sample missing
observations. The X13-ARIMA-SEATS program handles missing observations by
filling in values predicted by the estimated ARIMA process. You can
request the series with missing values filled in by including `MV` in the
option `Output=`.

## Spec File

The default X13-ARIMA-SEATS spec file is `+thirdparty/x12/default.spc`. You can
create your own spec file to include options that are not available
through the IRIS interface. You can use the following pre-defined
placeholders letting IRIS fill in some of the information needed (check
out the default file):

* `$series_data$` is replaced with a column vector of input observations;
* `$series_freq$` is replaced with a number representing the date
frequency: either 4 for quarterly, or 12 for monthly (other frequencies
are currenlty not supported by X13-ARIMA-SEATS);
* `$series_startyear$` is replaced with the start year of the input
series;
* `$series_startper$` is replaced with the start quarter or month of the
input series;
* `$transform_function$` is replaced with `log` or `none` depending on
the mode selected by the user;
* `$forecast_maxlead$` is replaced with the requested number of ARIMA
forecast periods used to extend the series before seasonal adjustment.
* `$forecast_maxlead$` is replaced with the requested number of ARIMA
forecast periods used to extend the series before seasonal adjustment.
* `$tolerance$` is replaced with the requested convergence tolerance in
the `estimation` spec.
* `$maxiter$` is replaced with the requested maximum number of iterations
in the `estimation` spec.
* `$maxorder$` is replaced with two numbers separated by a blank space:
maximum order of regular ARIMA, and maximum order of seasonal ARIMA.
* `$x11_mode$` is replaced with the requested mode: `'add'` for additive, 
`'mult'` for multiplicative, `'pseudoadd'` for pseudo-additive, or
`'logadd'` for log-additive;
* `$x12_save$` is replaced with the list of the requested output
series: `'d10'` for seasonals, `'d11'` for final seasonally adjusted
series, `'d12'` for trend-cycle, `'d13'` for irregular component.

Two of the placeholders, `'$series_data$` and `$x12_output$`, are
required; if they are not found in the spec file, IRIS throws an error.

## Estimates of ARIMA Model Parameters

The ARIMA model specification, `Model`, is a struct with three fields:

* `.spec` - a cell array with the first cell giving the structure of the
non-seasonal ARIMA, and the second cell giving the
structure of the seasonal ARIMA; both specifications follow the usual
Box-Jenkins notation, e.g. `[0 1 1]`.

* `.ar` - a numeric array with the point estimates of the AR coefficients
(non-seasonal and seasonal).

* `.ma` - a numeric array with the point estimates of the MA coefficients
(non-seasonal and seasonal).

## Examples

Run X12 on the entire range of a time series:

```matlab
xsa = x12(x);
xsa = x12(x, Inf);
xsa = x12(x, @all);
xsa = x12(x, get(x, 'range'));
```

